Ready?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Today I'm not going to go
heavy bench. Just spot her. Spotter. All
right. Bench press first day. And it's
not heavy. Well, it's kind of heavy for
this movement, but I'm not doing my my
usual powerlifting style setup, and I'm
giving my shoulder a little bit of a
rest. Um, I kind of tweaked it a few
weeks ago with with a bit of a strange
unrackck. And I thought nothing of it,
but then every week it's kind of just
not really getting better. So, I'm
changing the technique so that I can
still get great chaining stimulation
from the session without going as heavy.
Right? So, when I do a powerlifting
bench press with an arch, that's my
heaviest technique. and my sessions were
always like 180 kilograms, 190 kilograms
and and then we got to the point where
it was over 200 and I was talking about
retesting up to 220 kilograms. Now, I
think that is a big part of the
aggravating of everything, joints and
muscles and everything. And this is one
of the bad things about strength
training is it's not that strength
training is dangerous. Well, I guess
everything has its risks, but when it
comes to weight training, the heavier
the loads, the higher the risk of
injury. So that's just what happens and
that's something that needs to be
managed with your training, especially
when you're doing your strength phases.
So if you've been following me for long
enough, you know that I talk a lot about
programming and its importance, a
concept called periodization, which is
where you split up your training blocks
into various phases. So if you're not
familiar with that, the idea of
periodization, we want to get good at
lots of things. We want to build muscle.
We want to get stronger. We want to have
a one rep max, a great one rep max. We
also would love to run a marathon at the
same time. But the problem with that is
so much difference with each of those
modalities and and the styles of
training to achieve those at the highest
levels that if you try and do it all at
once, you're kind of spreading your
energy levels too thinly over all of
these different physical qualities, it's
really hard to get good. So when it
comes to sports at the highest levels,
what the best coaches and academics and
athletes have figured out is how to
separate those physical qualities into
phases and focus on one physical quality
at a time before we move on to the next.
And the best way of doing that in
general is start of a long-term plan.
We're thinking about higher reps first
to start building muscle and building
work capacity. And then after a high rep
phase, we gradually reduce the reps so
that we can increase those loads. The
reason why we want to do that gradually
is because lifting heavy weights is a
skill. And if you've never really done
like one rep max testing or anything
like that and you've just done
everything higher reps with lighter
weights, you'll be very unfamiliar with
what it feels like to go super heavy.
So, it's a it should really be a process
and it's not just about whether you're
strong enough, it's about whether you
understand the skill. So, if you've ever
felt you've gone for a one rep max test
and you're not peaked properly and you
know, you might be really good at eight
reps and 10 reps and whatever it might
be, but then all of a sudden it's like,
oh, I want to test my max and then all
of a sudden you unrackck a really heavy
weight whether you've done the
calculations or not. So, there's
calculations. If you can do 10 reps of
this, you know, you should be able to do
one rep of whatever it might be. But
then all of a sudden, you feel that rep
in your hands, whether if it's a bench
press, you feel that weight in your
hands and your body does all sorts of
things to compensate because it's very
heavy and you're unfamiliar with that,
which is why it's always a smarter
strategy to gradually over time teach
yourself how to handle the skill of a
heavy single. So that's how it's done.
We split it up in phases. So first phase
is higher reps with the focus of
building muscle mass. And the reason why
you do that first is because it's easier
to do lighter weights. it's just easier
to it's not as intimidating to come
under weight and push really hard with a
light weight. So, when it comes to
building muscle, the rep ranges that we
can choose are pretty flexible. So,
there's a lot of research that supports
that we can build muscle up to about 30
rep range. So, that's pretty high. That
doesn't mean we should do 30 reps, but
it just means we can so long as you're
taking those movements close to failure.
So, it's working hard with these light
weights is really what causes the
hypertrophy or the muscle building.
Whereas, when it comes to strength, you
really need to be lifting heavy weight
to get strong. What percentages?
Typically, it's kind of like over 80% of
your max is what you need to be working
on if you want to train for strength.
So, what rep range is that? That's kind
of six reps and under. So, 20 rep range
doesn't really make you stronger.
Unless, of course, you're a beginner.
Anything makes you stronger. But I'm
talking about, you know, intermediate,
advanced. If you want to get strong, you
need to lift heavy. How heavy? Over 80%
or in other words, kind of like six reps
and under. The problem with doing that
straight away is you need to develop the
skill. So high reps first. Then when you
go into the strength phases, we
gradually reduce the reps. And that's
how we do our strength phases. And
what's a good strength rep range? I said
under six. That doesn't mean one to six.
Even though a lot of the research says
that's the optimal rep range for
strength building, but I think that one
and two rep range and maybe even three
is kind of not enough volume. You still
need some type of volume to keep moving
forward with your strength. So a lot of
the times you know we talk about volume
for hypertrophy doing enough work but
then for strength we got to reduce the
volume so that we can shift more loads.
Well you still need a significant amount
of volume to continue to maintain that
muscle mass which is why strength phase
in my opinion is typically you know four
to six rep range is my sweet spot rep
range for strength building. So we go
from a hypertrophy phase which is you
know six to 12 rep range for hypertrophy
especially for the big movements depends
on the exercise. So for squats and
deadlifts, I think six rep range is a
sweet spot. But then for dumbbell work,
I think, you know, eights and tens and
and for back work, I think tens and
twelves. So that's hypertrophy rep
range. But when it comes to strength rep
range, four to six reps on these
movements. Now, there's another
difference with how hard we train with
our strength exercises. So for muscle
building or muscle hypertrophy, you need
to train those doesn't matter what
weight you're doing, you need to train
it pretty hard and take it pretty close
to failure. But when it comes to
strength, that comes at a risk because
strength training is heavy weights and
low reps. And when you take those
exercises closer to failure, there's a a
couple of risks. One of them is
technical breakdown. So strength is a
skill and you really need to refine the
skill. So that means the technique that
you're lifting as well as coordinating
yourself and understanding the feeling
of holding a heavy weight. And when
you're going so hard that you're taking
all these movements to failure, it can
be a negative to your performance in the
long run because it's very fatiguing as
well. And a lot of the times fatigue
masks fitness. So when it comes to
strength training, we kind of want to
leave a little bit more repetitions in
reserve compared to building muscle. So
that's one of the tricks and that's what
I'm going to be teaching you guys today.
So today my goal, my phase at the moment
is six rep range on a spotto press. So,
the reason remember the reason I'm doing
this, so spotto press is a mid-grip.
It's a little bit harder uh than a
normal competition style bench press,
but the reason why I'm doing that is
because I don't want to go as heavy
because it's seeming to aggravate my
shoulder. So, I'm using a slightly
lighter variation so that I can still
get great strength stimulus. Anyhow, so
the next thing is this. So, leaving
repetitions in reserve, another great
thing about that is setting yourself up
to progress. So, I call this periodizing
effort. So, it's like, you know, we're
brought up on the idea that the harder
you work, the better the results that
you get. And that's pretty true. But at
the same time, when it comes to
long-term programming, you need to
factor in weekly progression. So, the
comparison that I give is running a
marathon. So, you want to work hard in a
marathon to go well in the marathon,
don't you? If you were to run marathons,
but that doesn't mean you start by
sprinting as fast as you can. Because if
you do, you're going to lose energy very
quickly and it's going to negatively
impact the remainder of the race. And
that's how I consider my strength
training block is if you start going to
fail on your first weeks and the first
sessions of your strength block, it
leaves you very little room to progress
from week to week. Which is why I always
like to start with conservative weights
so that you can have room to be able to
add weight to the bar every single time
you come into the gym. So, a simple way
of describing this, I've made a video
about it before, but I'm going to tell
you exactly my strategy, and I say this
over and over again, and it's a really
simple strategy. If you were to design a
four-week program, what I like to do on
the first week is that's the most
conservative or the lightest or the
easiest week of the program. And I like
to say roughly about 7 RP as an average
for the intensity of the session. What
does 7 RP mean? Roughly about three reps
in reserve. Now, humans are very poor at
predicting reps in reserve. That's
totally okay. So, you're not going to
get that perfect. No one is. But on
average, that's how I want you to think
about it. So, you're pushing a roughly 7
out of 10 intensity. Then the next week
we add roughly 5% weight to the bar
which will take us to roughly an 8 RP or
two reps in reserve on average. The next
week add another 5% which is roughly a 9
RP or one rep in reserve. And then on
week four that's when we can kind of
like test I don't want to say test your
max your absolute max. I always say with
testing your maxes save that for
competition. And every now and then I
break that rule. Of course I want to
know how strong I am and I try and push
myself. But ideally, the goal is to
always leave a little bit in the tank.
But if you are to push it, save it for
week four. That way, you've had three
great weeks of practice so that on week
four, you're more familiar with the
feeling of the entire session with the
weight that you're about to lift. You've
gradually progressed to that point. And
then on week four, you stand a better
chance of performing very well as
opposed to trying to go to fail on the
first week and try and hit a new max or
a new PB. So, right now I'm doing spotto
press, three sets of six reps, and I'm
on week three. I started 150 kg and I
did three sets of six. Uh, and there was
reps in reserve. It was challenging, but
there was still reps in reserve. Last
week, I did 155. Today, the goal is 160
kg. So, I'm getting close to that kind
of 9 RP. So, I'm kind of pushing hard,
but we'll see because I've had two weeks
of great practice. And hopefully that's
actually made me stronger. You don't
need to go to absolute fail to improve
in strength and to improve or or build
muscle. You can leave repetitions in
reserve and still do all of those great
things. You don't have to train to
absolute fail to achieve that. But
especially when it comes to strength,
strength is a skill and we need to
master that skill. And when you're
grinding out reps, uh the technique is
not going to be the best, which is not
the worst thing in the world. So
technical breakdown kind of happens.
We're not no one's perfect. And you
know, the goal isn't to be perfect.
week. The goal is to be as good as
possible, but at the same time, week
three for me, so this is my second last
week, 160 kg should feel heavy, but the
goal is that 165 next week, that's going
to be my limit pretty much. So, if I get
165 for sixes, paused next week, I'll be
pretty happy with that. But today, it's
only 5 kg lighter than that. Warming up,
my shoulder doesn't feel amazing, but
it's only 160 kg for me, which my last
time I tested my max was 210 kg. So,
it's 50 kg less than my max. So, it's
okay. Uh, anyway, let's get started. I
hope that was a good uh education
session before we started our actual
training. Um, and if you follow that
programming principle with all of your
programming, I'm going to repeat it.
Four weekly programs. This works for
muscle building. This works for strength
gain. This works for all of your
programming. And that's how I write my
numbers for all of my programs. And I
continue to repeat that four-week
process. So, four-week plan. Week one is
RP7, then RP8, RP9, and then send it to,
you know, roughly RP 9 and a half to 10
on week four. and then repeat that
process on the next block. So you're
starting at RP7 again of the next block
which is slightly new exercises or even
very similar exercises with a different
rep range. So you go from eights on that
phase RP7 8910 and then the next one is
a six rep range for the next phase. So
RP 78 910 and then four rep range RP7
8910 and then two rep range RP 78910. So
every time you start week one of the new
plan you're starting from a higher base,
right? So, it's still RP7. So, you're
working with roughly three reps in
reserve, but your base level of strength
is slowly slowly increasing. So, this is
where we're at. I'm going to go and uh
I've cooled down a little bit. So, I'm
going to repeat that first set again. 70
kg on the bar, working up to 160 kg. Dy,
can I have a spot, please? Uh, that was
a good unrack before dinner. Taking a
lot of that weight from me, which is a
[__] lively one. Ready, set, up.
Come on. Thank you.
>> Okay, thank you.
Wow.
one, bro.
>> Got it. You know, it's fine.
Fantastic.
>> Thank you.
A
>> you hesitate.
>> I hesitated and then I just thought, you
know what?
>> Not worth the risk. But that's fine.
>> No pain. No pain. But I did feel it.
Like I heard it click. I don't know if
you heard that. Just went click.
Heard that click. And I was like, and
it's just on my mind the whole time.
Anyway, whatever. 665. Mr. Rep. one.
>> No.
>> See, get this right. How's this for the
mentality? If it was DJ, she'd go and
and do a set of one because she needs to
tick off everything on the program. For
me, um, that was a psychological loss.
I'm sure if I look back at the video, I
would go, "You idiot, you had it." Uh,
but whatever. I don't really care so
much. So, leaving that extra rep in
reserve for me, I do have a
psychological barrier, and that's my
shoulder. On the way down, I heard it
just just clicked. It wasn't major like
cracking bones is I mean cracking joints
is nothing major. It's just the air
bubbles popping. So I'm certain that
that's what it was. Zero pain during
that entire set. Um but I'm happy to
walk away and say whatever. I didn't get
the last rep. No big deal. Anyway, next
up, accessories.
>> Accessories. Can I ask you a question?
>> Yeah, bro. Of course you can. Of course
you can.
>> You said you leave reps in reserve. Like
is it going to cost more gain?
not in strength and also not really in
hypertrophy. Right? So, if you have a
look at that, um, was there reps in
reserve? Maybe, I don't know, but I
didn't do that extra rep. And and this
is me willing to walk away and say, "Who
cares?" Of course, you know, I would
have preferred to walk away and said, "I
got all three sets. I got all reps.
That's great." But for strength, leaving
reps in reserve, I'll tell you now,
there's research on how many reps in
reserve you need to be performing. So,
let's talk about the difference between
strength and hypertrophy. So a lot of
times people just quote hypertrophy
research as if it's carries over to
strength and there's a lot of
similarities but also a lot of
differences when it comes to
hypertrophy. The closer to fail the more
the mechanical tension. The more the
mechanical tension the more the
hypertrophy. But this is what you need
to consider. So therefore you know how
much hypertrophy do you want? The
correct answer is all of it. Right? So
therefore let's take everything to fail.
What problem does that cause? Well,
let's just say I went to fail on the
first set. Maybe I would have gotten
seven reps. But then the second set,
maybe I would have gotten five reps. And
then the third set, maybe four because
that's gone to complete exhaustion. And
then on total 7 + 5 is 12 + 4 is 16.
What did I just get now? I got 17 total
reps because I left reps in reserve to
have a high quality. That's me pacing
myself for the entire session. So on the
whole, total volume that's being
performed is a little bit higher when
you're leaving some reps in reserve.
when you're talking about the entire
session that seems to be more beneficial
when the goal is hypertrophy because
there is a dose response for hypertrophy
and volume. So what does that mean? The
higher the volume typically within
reason the greater the hypertrophy. So
that's done with studies on how many
sets is optimal for muscle growth. And
the best researchers in the world say 10
to 20 sets is the sweet spot. Um but
there's also study where they did uh leg
hypertrophy uh quadricep hypertrophy and
they had uh multiple groups performing
volume intermediate volume high volume
and up to 52 sets per week. And the
group that had the highest amount of
sets per week saw the most muscle growth
in the quadriceps. So what does that
tell us? More volume equals more
hypertrophy. Now don't take that study
and say, "Oh, we should do 52 sets." The
problem is that was only quadriceps. It
didn't say anything about the rest of
the body. And I'm quite certain that
they didn't do 52 sets on every single
muscle group of the body. It was just on
quadriceps. And if you did try and do
that, uh, that's when you absolutely
wouldn't have the energy to do that. And
you wouldn't have the energy to do that
over the long term. But either way,
that's when it comes to muscle
hypertrophy. Now, when it comes to
strength, the accumulation of volume
increases overall fatigue. Fatigue masks
fitness. So, a lot of the times that's
the difference between bodybuilders and
hypertrophy athletes. You know, it
doesn't really matter. their performance
doesn't matter as much because they're
not testing their max. They just need to
be training hard and they can continue
to grow. But when it comes to
performance, the fatigue interferes with
how hard you can push. Leaving
repetitions in reserve allows you to be
pushing at a high level. Uh every
repetition is more crisp. Grinding out
reps when it comes to strength and
especially power. Grinding out reps, I
haven't found the research. I don't read
I don't sit there reading research all
day, but I I know I've come across it
sometime in my life where um it talks
about grinding out reps when it comes to
strength. Teaches you to be slow.
I'll go and find the research for you
afterwards or if anyone's seen it uh
just put it in the comment section. I
may as well go and find it. But I know
that there is discussions on that and
that's one of the negatives of going to
fail all the time with your strength
work. And anecdotally, I've seen people
that always grind out their heavy reps.
And the result of that is they kind of
like they're the types of people, and if
this is you, take note. Some people that
grind out their heavy reps all the time,
they're also just very slow lifters in
general. So, they're also the types of
people if they're going to do a five rep
set, you look at their first rep and it
looks like that's their max and then all
of a sudden they're able to keep on
going, keep on going. So, when it comes
to powerlifting, it doesn't really
matter how fast you are. All that
matters is that you get the weight up or
not.
However, a lot of sports it does matter
how fast you are. And if you're training
yourself, grinding out your strength
sets, that could be slowing you down.
Now, when it comes to your question, um,
does it matter? Are you leaving gains on
the table? Well, maybe. Um, you could
be, and that's always the discussion
when you're leaving repetitions in
reserve. But what you got to think about
is what are those gains? How much gains
did you make in that session? This is
what you need to consider. The answer is
it's not measurable. Like how much do
you how much muscle did I just grow in
that session? None. I wouldn't have
grown any. Right? How much stronger did
I get? I didn't. So when do we start
measuring that? Like we need to have the
recovery. We need to refuel the body and
then we can start measuring. We can't we
can measure strength to see if I've
improved next week. But when it comes to
building muscle, how much muscle did I
grow? You can't really tell. You know, a
successful amount of muscle gain in a
year for an advanced lifter could be
around 2 kg of muscle mass in a year.
That could be really, really successful.
So when you break that up into 52 weeks,
how much muscle can you gain in a week?
>> You can't you can't build muscle like
you don't count how much muscle you grow
in a week. So what you need to consider
so a lot of the research where people
say you know the harder you train the
more the closer to fail the more muscle
you build.
You can't really measure muscle mass or
muscle growth on a setbyep basis. It's
an accumulation of successful sets and
successful sessions week after week,
month after month that leads to
successful muscle growth. And training
is a strategy. And I'm not saying always
leave repetitions in reserve. I'm saying
you need to create some type of a
strategy where you're better at teaching
yourself how to become a better lifter.
And part of that is teaching yourself
how many reps in reserve you actually do
have. You know, some people say never
train to fail. Well, how do you know how
many reps in reserve you have if you've
never been to fail? Okay, so that's
always that's a very common discussion
and it's a very good point and my it's
not just my solution to that. I know a
lot of successful coaches have the same
solution is to vary your proximity to
failure. And that's what I'm doing. I'm
flying closer and closer to to the sun
every week as I progress uh through my
short-term program. So for a four-week
program, remember that strategy RP7 or
three reps in reserve roughly. If it's
wrong, fine.
you get better at it next week. So the
next week we're going roughly two reps
in reserve which will also be wrong but
that's fine. You're still teaching
yourself. You know you've added weight
and then you're doing that every single
week. So right now was I wrong in
thinking that this week I was going to
have three sets of six like marginally I
got six six and then five and then
arguably maybe I had that last rep. But
this is me calibrating like I'm trying
to figure out I'm always trying to
figure out my limitations as well. how
many reps in reserve I actually have.
And no one will ever successfully have
that answer because we fluctuate in our
energy level. So if I was to do this
tomorrow, maybe I would have gotten
three sets of six or maybe if I rest 11
minutes, I'd get the fourth set and I'd
get six reps, which I'm not going to put
to the test because I don't care so
much. I just know that's how it goes. So
we can't predict our energy levels for
the session. And we can't predict like
we can try and predict how many reps in
reserve that we actually have, but we're
always going to be slightly off. But
this is the idea of leaving repetitions
in reserve is saving energy for a
successful session, saving energy for
gradual progression from week to week,
as well as gradually teaching us what
failure actually looks like for us.
Anyway, I hope that answered your
question. It was a pretty long-winded
answer, but what I'm going to do now is
a bit of accessory work. Uh, this is
going to be pretty boring. What I might
even do some rear delt work. Uh, I quite
like rear delt work. Um,
my rear delts are one of those muscles
that grow pretty easily. A lot of people
have commented on that. I get a I get a
rear delt. I haven't done anything for
my back, but I get a rear delt pump when
I do bench press or deadlifts or any
exercise. And I don't really target the
rear delts, but I think that's one of
those muscles that's really good to have
for healthy shoulders. So, uh, my plan
was to do arm work, but also some
shoulder health exercises and rear delt
work. Uh, you know, like face pulls. You
probably see me do that. external
rotations, uh, and rear delt flies.
That's kind of three of my favorite
ancillary exercises that I include in
for shoulder health, but it also looks
good in t-shirts to have big jacked rear
delts. So, I'm going to show you some of
the tricks that I use for my rear delt
raises. My favorite rear delt building
isolation exercise, incline bench,
kneeling on the bench.
Have a look at the technique that I'm
using. So, what I like to do is
internally rotate my humorous. So what a
lot of people do incorrectly is kind of
like come and have a look at what I'm
doing, you know, with bent elbows. What
you want to do is internally rotate. So
it's, you know, I guess you could say
pouring the jug of water. What you want
to do is expose the muscle that we're
working on, which is the rear delt in
the opposite direction of gravity
because it's lifting that weight against
gravity. Right? So you've got to point
the muscle that you're using in the
opposite direction to that. So that's
the back of my shoulder. So to do that,
if I externally rotate, I'm pointing my
front delt to the sky. When I internally
rotate, I'm hitting that target muscle.
Same with the standing lat lateral
raise. I want to internally rotate. So
when I externally rotate, I'm pointing
my front deltoid to the sky. So this is
more my front delt. And then when I
internally internally, I'm exposing my
middle deltoid to the sky. And then when
I lean forward a little bit further, I'm
exposing my rear deltoid to the sky. Now
here's the next things that I consider
with the technique
is I don't consider like lifting the
weight. I consider taking that weight
and pointing it towards that wall and
left side pointing it towards the left
side wall. So reaching outwards.
Reaching outwards. So expose the muscle
to the opposite direction of gravity or
to the sky and reach the dumbbells
outwards rather than lifting them up.
The reason why I like that queue is
because one of the errors that people
make is they think of it like it's a
row. And when I'm doing this, yeah, my
rear delts are on, but I'm also focusing
on squeezing my shoulder blades
together. Now, the muscles that squeeze
the shoulder blades together or retracts
the scapula are the romboids and
trapezius. Now, if you're isolating rear
delts, I don't want the romboids and
trapezius to help. Therefore, when I
focus on this exercise, I don't want to
think about squeezing the shoulder
blades together. They will move as a
result of moving my upper arm, but the
focus is not to squeeze them together
like you would an entire upper back
exercise, which is why reaching to the
sides is a better cue to allow the rear
deltoid to take over and deemphasize the
midback muscles. Now, the next thing
that I like to consider here is range of
motion here. So, some people say, do you
have to touch at the middle? This whole
range of motion here is unloaded. So
that's kind of like my arms are hanging.
There's I don't need any strength or to
to hold on to these dumbbells except for
my grip. So going closer here, this
range of motion is just building
momentum. So something I like to do is
kind of cut it short. It's like a
partial range of motion. Partial range
of motion because it's only partial. The
rep is over and done with in very short
period of time, which is why I like to
do more repetitions for this exercise.
So, whenever I do these rear delt
builders, I typically work in the 20 rep
range or thereabouts. I don't often
count. I just rep it, rep it, rep it,
rep it with that short range of motion.
That is my favorite rear delt builder.
Three sets of 20. Three sets of 20. You
know, doesn't have to be three sets to
be honest with you. More and more as I
get stronger and stronger and better at
this, I start realizing that well I know
that you know the law of diminishing
returns applies with everything that we
do. So the first set is the most
effective. Now that was a warm-up set
and I was talking through it so the
intensity wasn't hugely high. Um but
also this is another really important
thing with that exercise. I can take it
to failure
compared to my strength exercise where I
don't recommend you take it to failure.
So, one of the biggest reasons why you
don't want to take sets to failure is
because of the fatigue that it causes
for successful sessions and for recovery
for the next sessions. One of the main
reasons why we don't take these sets to
failure is because of the fatigue that
it causes for the remainder of the sets
for the rest of the session. So, you
want to have high quality sets for the
entire session as well as whether it's
going to interfere with the recovery
that's needed for any other session
during that week. So that's why we don't
take those big exercises to failure. So
bench press, how fatiguing can that be
if I take every set to absolute failure?
Pretty fatiguing. Same with squats and
deadlifts, pretty fatiguing. Rear
deltoids,
how fatiguing is that going to be? So if
I take that to failure with a set like,
you know, I just did 5 kg in each hand.
I'll go a little bit heavier for sure,
um, but not much heavier. And I'm doing
high rep sets, can that cause injury if
I take that to failure? I've never heard
of that before. 20 rep sets of rear delt
raises
with a light weight injuring somebody's
rear delts. I've never heard of that
before. Put in the comment section below
if that's ever happened to you, but I
highly doubt it. So, the risk of injury
for taking that movement to fail is
very, very low. The risk of fatigue
interfering with other sessions is also
very low. Like right now, I just did I
don't know how many reps. I think I
probably did about 30 reps and I'm fine
and I'm able to talk through it. So, I'm
going to have less rest between those
sets. Take it to absolute failure. It's
going to be totally fine. But, you know,
how many sets do I need? That first set
was only a light warm-up set, even
though I'm kind of warm. But, um, you
know, I'd say, you know, two sets, two
really, really hard sets is all I'm
going to really do. So, that set didn't
really count.
How long has my rest been?
>> 2 minutes.
>> Let's go again.
Well, well, I'm just So, here, this is
what I'm talking about. So this is like
you don't want the shoulder blades to
come in together.
>> Just do four.
That was too hot. That tea. That's my
session. Hope you enjoyed that
discussion on how hard you should train,
how to strategize your programming so
that every week you can make sure that
you progress every single time you come
into the gym. Set yourself up for
success. I call that periodizing effort,
but also educating yourself on
what failure truly feels like gradually
and learning never stops. So if you
think you know what failure is on the
first phase, you're going to get
stronger on the next phase and you're
always going to be changing. So you
always have to follow that process.
Anyway, click like, subscribe, all that
stuff and I'll see you next time.